Amazon S3 or Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service offered by Amazon Web Services that provides object storage through a web service interface. It is advertised as "infinitely scaling" storage

Amazon S3 allows users to store objects (files) into buckets (directories).

# Buckets

A bucket is **a container for objects stored in Amazon S3**.

Bucket names must be globally unique (across all regions and accounts).

Buckets can be seen as top level directories

Buckets are defined at the region level

# Objects

Each object has a unique **key** that can be used to retrieve it later.

The key is the FULL path:
- s3://my-bucket/my_file.txt
- s3://my-bucket/my_foler1/another_folder/my_file.txt

The key is composed of a prefix + object name

For: `s3://my-bucket/my_foler1/another_folder/my_file.txt`
- `my_foler1/another_folder` is the prefix
- `my_file.txt` is the object name

There is no real concept of directories within buckets (although the UI presents it that way). They are just keys with long names that contain slashes

**Object values** hold the content of the object.

The maximum size of S3 objects is 5GB, and larger files must be uploaded with the "multi-part upload" function.

Objects also have:
- Metadata - a list of key/value pairs - can be system or user metadata
- Tags - unicode key/value pairs - useful for security / lifecycle
- Version ID (if versioning is enabled)

# Static Website Hosting

S3 can host static websites and have them accessible on the internet

An important thing to remember while configuring is to make sure the bucket policy allows public reads!